 
 
 
1 
 
 
Zaman Adwani 
E-Mail: zaman.adwani@gmail.com 
Cell: +1 (469) 779 – 5417 
 
 
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY: 
 
• Eighteen plus (18+) years of experience in which Ten plus (10+) years’ experience of extensive project 
management, team building and leadership experience within banking, financial services, business management 
consultation, healthcare, energy, and manufacturing domains. Expert in enterprise risk management implementation 
(ERM), change management, identify key break points in systems and prosses and develop best mitigation plans.  
• Innovative leader, empower my team to get the best in them. Use key performance indicators – PKIs to evaluate 
performance and measure development. 
• Strong understanding of software development lifecycle tools, SDLC, including modern technologies. 
• Hands on project manager, with adaptable style, expert in managing projects using Waterfall, Kanban, or Agile 
frameworks/methodology, depending on type of project/phase and milestone. 
• Scrum master, facilitate scrum ceremonies and ensuring all agile principles and best practices are followed. Coach 
the teams, acting as a servant leader to develop process and teams.  
• Evaluate projects using earned value management, schedule performance index, cost performance index, critical 
path analysis, and development of work breakdown structures. 
• Strong analytical skills, GAP analysis, Systems analysis, manage multiple responsibilities, deliver high value/ 
complex software IT and business solutions in medium or large size matrix in waterfall or agile environment. 
• SAFe Lean-Agile Lead coaching, mentor cross-functional teams in becoming self-organized and implementing agile 
principles correctly.  
• Excellent communication skills both written and verbal, addressing a wide range of audiences (client, team, peers, 
technical, non-technical, corporate, and senior stakeholders/management. 
• Well-versed capabilities in requirements and change management. Ability to work within multi cross functional teams 
(onshore/offshore teams) in difficult environment and adhere to project’s scope, deliverables and deadlines. 
• Work directly with clients to develop the business, as well as project management. Highly credible negotiation, 
analytical, and leadership skills.  
 
 
TECHNICAL SKILLS:  
 
CATEGORY 
DESCRIPTION  
APPLICATION SOFTWARE 
Smartsheet, Planview, MS Project, Gantt Chart, Trillo, Workfront, Dashboard/Reports, 
MIRO 
TECHNICAL TOOLS 
JIRA, Confluence, Leankit 
PROCESS MODELLING 
MS Visio, Lucid Chart, Rational Rose 
DOCUMENTS & PROCESSES 
Use Cases, Test plans & cases, Business Process Modelling, Project Planning & tracking 
STRATEGY ANALYSIS 
PowerBI, Decision Tree Software, Google Analytics 
RISK MANAGEMENT  
ERM, Disaster Recovery strategies and execution 
 
 
CERTIFICATION: 
 
Ø Scaled Agile Foundation – SAFe Training  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2022 
Ø Certified Scrum Master – CSM  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2021 
Ø Innovation and Changer Management   
 
 
 
 
 
 
2016 
Ø Leadership and Team Building   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 
Ø Project Management Professional – PMP Training 
 
 
 
 
 
2015 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: 
 
CLIENT: KEURIG DRPEPPER – KDP  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
JAN 2023 - PRESENT 
TEAM LEAD PROJECT MANAGER – CENTER OF EXCELLENCE TEAM – COE 
 
PROJECT RESPONSIBILITIES: 
Ø SME for the project: spearhead for process development, implement best practices and ensure all COE team 
adhere to the changes.  
Ø Lead change management for COE team, and cross-function communication, standardize processes and 
procedures and ensure all COE team members are adhere to new improvements. 
Ø Responsible for the leadership and management of COE team to support projects profitable operation. 
Ø Responsible for proactively managing the project's technical budget (direct labor and expenses, including 
technical sub-consultants), schedule, technical requirements, contractual obligations, project communications, 
and performance. 
Ø Manage all COE team includes eleven project analysts – PAs, and five project financial analysts – PFAs, to 
manage 250+ KDP IT projects, hardware and software, and track their financial expenses. 
Ø Lead agile transformation. 
Ø Manage risks and identify constrains for projects and processes and implement mitigation plans. 
Ø Identify areas of improvements among the team, schedule monthly training to improve performance. 
Ø Manage daily operations for the COE team. 
Ø Execute root cause analysis and impacted analysis for issues, and provide practical solutions which 
guarantee achieving goals within scope, budget and time.  
Ø Focal point of communication between COE team and all other business unit, and communicate solutions, 
outcome, impact and changes to stakeholders.  
Ø Integrate open communication style with all stakeholders (portfolio towers and other business unites), to 
collect feedback and retrospect it for team improvement. 
Ø Participate in project’s scoping, costs/budgeting, risk matrices, milestones, execution, closing of projects.  
Ø Encourage innovation among COE team by empower employees to integrate best practices. 
Ø Set KPIs to measure prefinance and motivate the team. 
 
 
CLIENT: FIRST MERCHANTS BANK    (REMOTE)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
OCT 21 – JAN 2023  
PROJECT MANAGER | ENTERPRISE APPLICATION PORTFOLIO MANAGER | SCRUM MASTER  
 
First Merchants Bank (FMB) is the largest financial services holding company in Central Indiana, headquartered in 
Muncie, Indiana. FMB offers customers broad financial services throughout locations in Indiana, Ohio, Illinois and 
Michigan providing: Commercial Banking (business), Personal Banking (consumer), Private Wealth Advisors – trusts.  
IMPACT PROJECT: Manage and develop the entire enterprise applications inventory and investment roadmap. 
 
PROJECT RESPONSIBILITIES: 
Ø Project Manager, manage projects using Waterfall, Kanban and Agile methodologies. 
Ø Manage Application Pipeline Project to assess new solutions, Stage Gate for the organization. 
Ø Coordinate/facilitate routines to support delivery (including kick-offs, status reviews, stakeholder meetings, 
change controls, etc.), ensure deliverables comply with Enterprise Change Management standards. 
Ø Conduct Release Readiness reviews, Milestone Reviews, and Business Go/No-Go reviews.  
Ø Use Smartsheet to track projects status and updates, plan delivery and dependencies across different teams, 
identify critical paths, work breakdown structures WBS and to manage projects efficiently. 
Ø Use key performance indicators, earned value management, schedule performance index, cost performance 
index, critical path analysis, and development of work breakdown structures to manage projects efficiently. 
Ø Lead meetings and facilitating discussions with different business teams and facilitate dependency 
management/risk management/impediment removal for the defined deliverables. 
Ø Perform detailed assessments of project risks to determine constraints and develop mitigation strategies, 
resolve, and address problems and conflicts through risk management techniques, effective dialogue, and 
contingency planning. 
Ø Promote/facilitate communication and collaboration across organizations to support deliverables & timelines. 
Ø Enterprise Application Portfolio Management (EAPM) program, drive on-time/budgeting/approvals and deliver 
different initiatives of portfolio management of projects to improve the overall process and implementing 
rollout plans, summarize and rationalize applications inventory, and develop roadmap of the investment for 
the organization to drive Agility transformation from Waterfall.  
Ø Scrum Master facilitate Scrum ceremonies and agile principles and they are followed by teams all acting, act 
as a servant leader to my development teams and business stakeholders.  
Ø Lead daily scrum Stand-Ups, iteration reviews. 
 
 
 
3 
Ø Collaborated with product owners, business managers and development team members to develop and 
maintain quality product backlogs.  
Ø Support the team in removing impediments which cannot be solved by the team and encourage self-
management for issues that can be solved within the team. 
Ø Maintain active status with team and agile board to assess story and sprint health.  
Ø Collect reports, metrics, and statuses through automated and manual processes to provide to key 
stakeholders.  
Ø Track project metrics to judge project progress while managing risks, stakeholder communication plans, 
vendors, in-house and outsourced resources. 
Ø Incorporate and drive agile methodologies (Scrum, KanBan, SAFe) across the entire development process.  
Ø Shield the team from external interference to enable optimal functionality and productivity 
 
 
CLIENT: CENTRA HEALTH    (18 MONTHS CONTRACT – REMOTE) 
 
 
 
 
MAR 20 – OCT 21 
PROJECT MANAGER | SCRUM MASTER 
 
Centra Health (Centra) was created in 1987 through the merger of Lynchburg General (LGH) and Virginia Baptist 
(VBH) Hospitals, it’s a regional nonprofit healthcare system based in Lynchburg, Virginia. Centra serves over 500,000 
people as the dominant provider of critical medical services in central & southern Virginia.  
 
PROJECT RESPONSIBILITIES: 
Ø Manage projects using Waterfall, Kanban and Agile methodologies. 
Ø Gather/facilitate project status oversight for the deliverables to stakeholders and leadership, report 
delays/risks/issues across priorities. 
Ø Use Smartsheet to track projects status and updates, plan delivery and dependencies across different teams, 
identify critical paths, work breakdown structures WBS and to manage projects efficiently. 
Ø Conduct Release Readiness reviews, Milestone Reviews, and Business Go/No-Go reviews. Communicate 
release details and schedules to the Business as required 
Ø Use key performance indicators, earned value management, schedule performance index, cost performance 
index, critical path analysis, and development of work breakdown structures to manage projects efficiently. 
Ø Facilitated Scrum framework events (Internally and off-shore) – sprint planning, backlog refinement, daily 
scrums, sprint reviews and sprint retrospectives. 
Ø Responsible for preparing external end-of sprint demos, creating dashboard reports, and radiating daily 
project progress 
Ø Run daily stand-ups with the development team and product owner to ensure sprint and project are on track 
and helping to remove roadblocks. 
Ø Work directly with product owners, designers, developers and client stakeholders to manage sprints, 
deliverables and expectations throughout various projects. 
Ø Collaborated with product owners, business managers and development team members to develop and 
maintain quality product backlogs 
Ø Actively engaged in defining and managing action items, identifying, and mitigating project impediments and 
risks, defining scope and helping team with capacity planning and commitment 
Ø Planned Agile best practices and encouraged team cohesion, overcoming impediments and hurdles to 
productivity. 
Ø Assist in fostering smooth internal and external communication between development teams and 
stakeholders, improving transparency, and radiating information when needed 
Ø Work directly with clients on developing the business, as well as project management. Highly credible 
negotiation, analytical, and leadership skills.  
 
 
CLIENT:  CAPITAL ONE BANK    (10 MONTHS CONTRACT – REMOTE) 
 
 
 
 
MAY 19 – FEB 20 
PROJECT MANAGER | BUSINESS ANALYST  
 
Capital One Financial Corporation is a diversified banking company focused primarily on consumer and commercial 
lending and deposit origination. Its principal business segments are Local Banking and National Lending. Local 
Banking includes consumer, small business & commercial deposits, and lending conducted within its branch network.  
 
IMPACT PROJECT: Provide strategic and business consultation to derive recommendations and implement solutions for 
tech, sales, operations, design, data science, engineering, and finance unites. 
 
PROJECT RESPONSIBILITIES: 
Ø Work closely with the Business owners to gather their financial needs. 
Ø Organize information and develop business cases offering recommendations to clients. 
 
 
 
4 
Ø Facilitate and gather requirements and create Use Cases by extensive requirement gathering sessions, JAD 
sessions, facilitate and lead meetings. 
Ø Use key performance indicators, earned value management, schedule performance index, cost performance 
index, critical path analysis, and development of work breakdown structures to manage projects efficiently. 
Ø Work extensively with QA team to design Test Plan and Test Cases for the User Acceptance testing (UAT). 
Ø Create Use Case specifications, Business Flow diagrams, Activity/state diagram so developers and other 
stakeholders can understand business process according to their perspective with possible alternate scenarios. 
Ø Facilitate the overall management of the projects including Risk Analysis and Mitigation, Status Reports, client 
presentations, defining milestone deliverables and establishing critical success factors. 
Ø Use modeling and analytics to understand business decisions impact.  
Ø Perform and document GAP and Impact Analysis to identify and document areas of development, and to help 
identify the right product to the customer. 
Ø In-depth understanding of Business Processes Modeling, Data Flow Modeling, Work Flow Analysis, Use Case 
Analysis, Activity Diagrams. 
Ø Work in an environment with tight deadlines, shifting priorities/ thinking/ approach as requirements, needs, 
marketplace and even stakeholders change and grow, and communicate product vision and explain complex 
technical concepts to a non-technical audience.  
Ø Well-versed in building positive relations and open communications between team resources and 
stakeholders, optimizing workflows, solving complex problems, resolving conflicts and making accurate 
decisions based on sound judgement and analytical strengths.  
Ø Interact directly with users (internal and external) to underlay needs by analyzing product functions and 
processes built around those needs.  
Ø Develop hypotheses and set problem frameworks to test for the best solutions.  
Ø Scope the Operational Feasibility, and lead implementation efforts. 
Ø Function as primary liaison between business line, operations, and technical areas throughout project cycle. 
 
 
CLIENT: RIYADA    -   MUSCAT, OMAN  
APR 2016 – FEB 2019 
PROJECT MANAGER  
 
Public Authority for Development of Small & Medium Enterprise – RIYADA: is a government umbrella establishes in 
2013 to develop the Small and Medium Enterprise sector in Oman, including initiate new legislations, websites, provide 
logistics, financial and training support. 
IMPACT PROJECT: Implement centralized, web-based application infrastructure to improve development time, provide 
online data access to the project.  
 
PROJECT RESPONSIBILITIES: 
Ø Coordinate and facilitate project’s routines to support delivery (kick-offs, status reviews, stakeholder meetings, 
change controls, tollgates, etc.), plan and coordinate delivery and dependencies across multiple teams. 
Ø Facilitate dependency management/risk management/impediment removal for the defined deliverables. 
Ø Promote/facilitate communication and collaboration across organizations to support the deliverable completion 
and timeline 
Ø Gather/facilitate project status oversight for the deliverables to stakeholders and leadership, report 
delays/risks/issues across priorities, facilitate and lead meetings. 
Ø Ensure that execution is aligned with deliverable requirements by working with the sponsor/stakeholders, and 
deliverables comply with Enterprise Change Management standards. 
Ø Work directly with clients on developing the business, as well as project management. Highly credible 
negotiation, analytical, and leadership skills.  
Ø Use key performance indicators, earned value management, schedule performance index, cost performance 
index, critical path analysis, and development of work breakdown structures to manage projects efficiently. 
Ø Lead 
and 
mentor 
different 
business 
teams 
and 
facilitate 
dependency 
management/risk 
management/impediment removal for the defined deliverables. 
Ø Monitors project plans, assignments, and work efforts on a daily basis. Ensures resource needs are assigned 
appropriately and escalates functional, quality, timeline issues. 
Ø Interact directly with Stakeholders, SMEs when performing Feasibility study, Gathering Requirements, GAP 
analysis, Systems Analysis, and High-Level Design. 
Ø Interviewing Subject Matter Experts, SMEs, to identify and record requirements in clear format that can be 
reviewed and understood by both business and technical people in the project. 
Ø Manage Change Request by performing thorough Impact Analysis of changes required. 
Ø Track and monitor Issues/Changes during product Implementation, ensure timely solution to business needs. 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
CLIENT: VOLTAMP ENERGY SAOC -   MUSCAT, OMAN 
FEB 2013 – MAR 2016 
PROJECT MANAGER | STRATEGIC CONSULTANT  
 
Voltamp Energy is a leading power transformer manufacturing company in Oman/GCC area with client base of 1000 in 
Oman & MENA region. 
 
PROJECT RESPONSIBILITIES: 
Ø Responsible for overall coordination, status reporting, and stability of project-oriented work efforts. 
Ø Adheres to project management processes and methodologies including estimating various task effort of the 
project from requirement gathering, and ensure projects deliverables on timely fashion, within budgeted hours, 
adheres to high quality standards. 
Ø Monitors project plans, assignments and work efforts on a daily basis. Ensures resource needs are assigned 
appropriately and escalates functional, quality, timeline issues. 
Ø Tracks key project milestones and adjusts project plans to meet the needs of work effort.  
Ø Responsible for leading the project from inception to final business acceptance and implementation. 
Ø Analyze business requirements and prioritize them into high-level and low-level Use Case specifications, 
Perform Strategic Analysis, to all project processes to identify issues and prioritize actions for improvements. 
Ø Interact with top management to discuss project objectives, Scope, Resources, Budget, and Implementation.  
Ø Perform War-Room concept (JAD Session) to discuss and solve issue. 
Ø Initiate Business Development department, Segmenting Sales & Marketing department. 
Ø Perform Strategic Planning, Cross Function Communications to exchange business information. 
Ø Perform Risk Management and Risk Mitigation. 
Ø Align Business Planning with the Financial Performance.  
Ø Manage assets acquisition & merging Nizwa Tanks Co. with Voltamp Oman. 
Ø Perform Brand Management to promote company’s products and services. 
Ø Work directly with clients on developing the business, as well as project management. Highly credible 
negotiation, analytical, and leadership skills.  
Ø Implement Customer Relationship Management System, CRM, to improve performance. 
Ø Implement LEAN project to improve efficiency and productivity, reducing waste and increase cash flow. 
Ø Implement Digital Transformation for customer service department for after-sale services. 
 
 
CLIENT: HART LAND, SEA & AIR INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS    -  BAGHDAD, IRAQ  
AUG 2010 – DEC 2012 
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT MANAGER | FINANCE MANAGER 
 
Hart Security is an elite British company in security/logistics and management solutions services to different clients 
around the world. 
 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES: 
Ø Marketing Planning, Market segmentation as per company strategy. 
Ø Work directly with clients on developing the business, as well as project management. Highly credible 
negotiation, analytical, and leadership skills.  
Ø Perform Market Intelligence to understand and identify Business Opportunities, Risks and Competitors. 
Ø Perform Brand Management to promote company’s services. 
Ø Manage marketing campaigns including (events, seminars, exhibitions, etc.) to promote the company brand. 
Ø Managed cash activities (payroll, invoices, audit expenses), and control all cash transactions. 
Ø Perform Action Plan for tendering and payable cycle, increasing cash flow. 
Ø Align business planning with the financial performance.  
Ø Improvement action plan for tendering and payable cycle, increasing cash flow. 
Ø Centralize all financial activities to minimize cash movements. 
Ø Budget management. 
 
 
CLIENT: RECOLO RECRUITMENT -  AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS  
JUN 2008 – JUL 2010 
SALES AND MARKETING SPECIALIST  
 
Recolo is a recruitment agency in Amsterdam, Netherlands, it provides business services for different industries/clients 
in retail, hotels & hospitality, restaurants.  
 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES: 
Ø Perform market research to generate sales leads. 
Ø Prepare contracts and Memorandum of Understanding, MOU, for all new clients.  
 
 
 
6 
Ø Managed customer account, solve and document problems, and sneure customer satisfaction. 
Ø Enhance cross function communication channels between customers and organization business units to speed 
up process. 
Ø Marketing Planning and market segmentation as per company strategy. 
Ø Build strong long-term relationships with Key Customers and Decision Makers to improve the business. 
Ø Perform Market Intelligence to understand and identify Business Opportunities, Risks and Competitors. 
 
 
CLIENT: BECHTEL INC., USAID  - IRAQ RE- INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT, BAGHDAD, IRAQ   
JUN 2003 – SEP 2006 
FINANCE MANAGER 
 
PROJECT RESPONSIBILITIES:  
 
Ø Manage Payroll, daily ledger and all other expenses and monthly payments. 
Ø Manage all on-shore and off-shore money transactions. 
Ø Manage cash flow and cash allocation. 
Ø Budget management. 
Ø Centralize all financial activities to minimize cash movements. 
 
ACADEMIC QUALIFICATION: 
 
Ø PHD in Corporate Innovation and Entrepreneurship   
 
 
 
 
2023  
Grand Canyon University – USA  
 
Ø Master of Business Administration MBA – Project Management  
 
 
 
2018  
University of Strathclyde, UK 
 
Ø Bachelor of Computer Science 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2001 
Baghdad University, Iraq 
